docs/docs/extras/deploy-heroku.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Deploy to Heroku

For information on how the deployment works, see the
[Creating a 'Deploy to Heroku' Button](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-button)
documentation.

[![Deploy to Heroku](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://www.heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/tableau/tableau-mcp)

As part of the deployment process, Heroku will prompt for the key configuration values:

- SERVER
- SITE_NAME
- PAT_NAME
- PAT_VALUE

## Configure AI Tools with Heroku

Because the Heroku deployment is already configured with your server, site and authentication
settings, configuring in AI tools only needs to point to the instance:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "tableau": {
      "transport": "http",
      "url": "https://YOUR-APP-NAME.herokuapp.com/tableau-mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

:::warning

Deploying Tableau MCP to Heroku should be considered experimental at this point. Treat your Heroku
instance URL carefully and don't share it. This is meant only for test and development at this time.

:::

Commit message:

Refactored everything related to configuring MCP clients, splitting into two main ares: - for end users: explain running latest release using Node or Claude Desktop Extension - for developers: explain how to build from source and run with either Node, Docker or Heroku
Also removed a bunch of client-specific instructions since we're trying to go with a more
general approach now.

docs/docs/extras/deploy-heroku.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Deploy to Heroku

This project now includes experimental support for Heroku.

Use the Deploy to Heroku button to start the app creation flow to create a Tableau MCP instance:

[![Deploy to Heroku](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://www.heroku.com/deploy?template=https://github.com/tableau/tableau-mcp)

As part of the deployment process, Heroku will prompt for the key configuration values:

- SERVER
- SITE_NAME
- PAT_NAME
- PAT_VALUE

For information on how the deployment works, see the
[Creating a 'Deploy to Heroku' Button](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-button)
documentation.

## Configure AI Tools with Heroku

Because the Heroku deployment is already configured with your server, site and authentication
settings, configuring in AI tools only needs to point to the instance:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "tableau": {
      "transport": "http",
      "url": "https://YOUR-APP-NAME.herokuapp.com/tableau-mcp"
    }
  }
}
```

The project includes a template file `config.http.json` which you can use as an example.

:::warning

Deploying Tableau MCP to Heroku should be considered experimental at this point. Treat your Heroku
instance URL carefully and don't share it. This is meant only for test and development at this time.

:::
