docs/docs/configuration/mcp-config/http-server.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# HTTP Server

The Tableau MCP server can be configured to run as an HTTP server, leveraging the Streaming HTTP MCP
transport. This is useful for deploying the server remotely and exposing it to multiple clients.

When `TRANSPORT` is `http`, the following environment variables can be used to configure the HTTP
server. They are all optional.

## `HTTP_PORT_ENV_VAR_NAME`

The environment variable name to use for the HTTP server port.

- Default: `PORT`

<hr />

## `[Value of HTTP_PORT_ENV_VAR_NAME]`

The port to use for the HTTP server.

- Default: `3927`

<hr />

## `SSL_KEY`

The path to the SSL key file to use for the HTTP server.

<hr />

## `SSL_CERT`

The path to the SSL certificate file to use for the HTTP server.

<hr />

## `CORS_ORIGIN_CONFIG`

The origin or origins to allow CORS requests from.

- Default: `true`
- Acceptable values include `true`, `false`, `*`, or a URL or array of URLs. See [cors config
  options][cors] for details.

[cors]: https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/cors.html#configuration-options

Commit message:

Update tools to use OAuth info (#148)
* Log username

* Update tools

* Add prompt when disabling OAuth

* Rename to DANGEROUSLY_DISABLE_OAUTH

* Add OAuth tests (#149)

* Add supertest and OAuth tests

* Run OAuth tests during CI

* Remove OAUTH_JWE_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSPHRASE

* Remove more unneeded env vars

* Remove unneeded TRANSPORT

* Address Copilot suggestions

* s/return/await

* Add additional refresh_token coverage

* Update should redirect to Tableau OAuth

* Improve afterEach

* Add invalid token request test

* Add OAuth docs (#150)

* Add mermaid theme

* Fix mermaid theme version

* Add OAuth docs

* Rename optional.md to env-vars.md

* Merge env var files

* Update warnings

* Add warning to http-server

* Update docs

docs/docs/configuration/mcp-config/http-server.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# HTTP Server

The Tableau MCP server can be configured to run as an HTTP server, leveraging the Streaming HTTP MCP
transport. This is useful for deploying the server remotely and exposing it to multiple clients.

:::warning

When `TRANSPORT` is `http`, the default behavior changes to require protecting your MCP server with
OAuth as a security best practice.

To opt out of this behavior at your own risk, please see the entry on
[`DANGEROUSLY_DISABLE_OAUTH`](oauth.md#dangerously_disable_oauth).

:::

When `TRANSPORT` is `http`, the following environment variables can be used to configure the HTTP
server. They are all optional.

## `HTTP_PORT_ENV_VAR_NAME`

The environment variable name to use for the HTTP server port.

- Default: `PORT`

<hr />

## `[Value of HTTP_PORT_ENV_VAR_NAME]`

The port to use for the HTTP server.

- Default: `3927`

<hr />

## `SSL_KEY`

The path to the SSL key file to use for the HTTP server.

<hr />

## `SSL_CERT`

The path to the SSL certificate file to use for the HTTP server.

<hr />

## `CORS_ORIGIN_CONFIG`

The origin or origins to allow CORS requests from.

- Default: `true`
- Acceptable values include `true`, `false`, `*`, or a URL or array of URLs. See [cors config
  options][cors] for details.

[cors]: https://expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware/cors.html#configuration-options
