docs/docs/configuration/mcp-config/tool-scoping.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Tool Scoping

The Tableau MCP server can be configured to limit the scope of its tools to a set of data sources,
workbooks, or projects.

Enabling tool scoping can cause:

1. Tools to return an error if they are called with arguments that are not within the allowed scope.
2. Tools to respond with results that have been filtered to only include content from the allowed
   scope.

## Examples use-cases

- Only allow clients to query a single data source with the
  [Query Data Source](../../tools/data-qna/query-datasource.md) tool. A client attempting to query
  any other data source will result in an error.
- Filter the results of the [List Workbooks](../../tools/workbooks/list-workbooks.md) tool to only
  include workbooks that exist in a single project. Workbooks from other projects will not be
  included in the results.

## Environment variables

The following optional environment variables can be used to configure the tool scoping.

### `INCLUDE_PROJECT_IDS`

A comma-separated list of project IDs by which to constrain tool arguments and results. Only data
sources and workbooks (or views from those workbooks) that are members of the provided projects can
be queried or will be included in the results of the tools.

- When set, cannot be empty.
- Project IDs can be determined using the
  [Query Projects](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_projects.htm#query_projects)
  REST API or by the [List Data Sources](../../tools/data-qna/list-datasources.md),
  [List Workbooks](../../tools/workbooks/list-workbooks.md), and
  [List Views](../../tools/views/list-views.md) tools (assuming tool scoping is disabled).
- Has no impact on the results of the Pulse-related tools.

Example: `d87d843b-4326-4ce3-bc50-a68c1e6c9ca5`

:::warning

To constrain the results of the [Search Content](../../tools/content-exploration/search-content.md)
tool by project, you must also provide the project ID found in the project's URL in the Explore
section of your Tableau site e.g. `861566` from
`https://10ax.online.tableau.com/#/site/my-site/projects/861566`

Example: `d87d843b-4326-4ce3-bc50-a68c1e6c9ca5,861566`

:::

<hr />

### `INCLUDE_DATASOURCE_IDS`

A comma-separated list of data source IDs by which to constrain tool arguments and results. Only
data sources or Pulse metrics and definitions derived from those data sources can be queried or will
be included in the results of the tools.

- When set, cannot be empty.
- Data source IDs can be determined using the
  [Query Data Sources](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_data_sources.htm#query_data_sources)
  REST API or the [List Data Sources](../../tools/data-qna/list-datasources.md) tool (assuming tool
  scoping is disabled).
- Has no impact on tools that return information about workbooks or views.

Example: `2d935df8-fe7e-4fd8-bb14-35eb4ba31d4`

<hr />

### `INCLUDE_WORKBOOK_IDS`

A comma-separated list of workbook IDs by which to constrain tool arguments and results. Only
workbooks or views from those workbooks can be queried or will be included in the results of the
tools.

- When set, cannot be empty.
- Workbook IDs can be determined using the
  [Query Workbooks](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_workbooks_and_views.htm#query_workbooks)
  REST API or the [List Workbooks](../../tools/workbooks/list-workbooks.md) tool (assuming tool
  scoping is disabled). The [List Views](../../tools/views/list-views.md) tools also return workbook
  IDs.
- Has no impact on the results of the Pulse-related tools.

Example: `222ea993-9391-4910-a167-56b3d19b4e3b`

<hr />

Commit message:

@W-20797528: Implement tag-based scoping (#212)
* Update schemas

* Update config

* Update pre and post filtering

* Add error handling

* Fix ResourceAccessChecker tests

* Parameterize isDatasourceAllowed tests

* Parameterize isWorkbookAllowed tests

* Parameterize isViewAllowed tests

* Fix compile errors

* Update more tests for tag filtering

* Update docs

* Bump

* Constrain workbook views

* Update tool docs

* Add extensions to import

docs/docs/configuration/mcp-config/tool-scoping.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Tool Scoping

The Tableau MCP server can be configured to limit the scope of its tools to a set of data sources,
workbooks, projects, or tags.

Enabling tool scoping can cause:

1. Tools to return an error if they are called with arguments that are not within the allowed scope.
2. Tools to respond with results that have been filtered to only include content from the allowed
   scope.

## Examples use-cases

- Only allow clients to query a single data source with the
  [Query Data Source](../../tools/data-qna/query-datasource.md) tool. A client attempting to query
  any other data source will result in an error.
- Filter the results of the [List Workbooks](../../tools/workbooks/list-workbooks.md) tool to only
  include workbooks that exist in a single project. Workbooks from other projects will not be
  included in the results.

## Environment variables

The following optional environment variables can be used to configure the tool scoping.

### `INCLUDE_PROJECT_IDS`

A comma-separated list of project IDs by which to constrain tool arguments and results. Only data
sources and workbooks (or views from those workbooks) that are members of the provided projects can
be queried or will be included in the results of the tools.

- When set, cannot be empty.
- Project IDs can be determined using the
  [Query Projects](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_projects.htm#query_projects)
  REST API or by the [List Data Sources](../../tools/data-qna/list-datasources.md),
  [List Workbooks](../../tools/workbooks/list-workbooks.md), and
  [List Views](../../tools/views/list-views.md) tools (assuming tool scoping is disabled).
- Has no impact on the results of the Pulse-related tools.

Example: `d87d843b-4326-4ce3-bc50-a68c1e6c9ca5`

:::warning

To constrain the results of the [Search Content](../../tools/content-exploration/search-content.md)
tool by project, you must also provide the project ID found in the project's URL in the Explore
section of your Tableau site e.g. `861566` from
`https://10ax.online.tableau.com/#/site/my-site/projects/861566`

Example: `d87d843b-4326-4ce3-bc50-a68c1e6c9ca5,861566`

:::

<hr />

### `INCLUDE_DATASOURCE_IDS`

A comma-separated list of data source IDs by which to constrain tool arguments and results. Only
data sources or Pulse metrics and definitions derived from those data sources can be queried or will
be included in the results of the tools.

- When set, cannot be empty.
- Data source IDs can be determined using the
  [Query Data Sources](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_data_sources.htm#query_data_sources)
  REST API or the [List Data Sources](../../tools/data-qna/list-datasources.md) tool (assuming tool
  scoping is disabled).
- Has no impact on tools that return information about workbooks or views.

Example: `2d935df8-fe7e-4fd8-bb14-35eb4ba31d4`

<hr />

### `INCLUDE_WORKBOOK_IDS`

A comma-separated list of workbook IDs by which to constrain tool arguments and results. Only
workbooks or views from those workbooks can be queried or will be included in the results of the
tools.

- When set, cannot be empty.
- Workbook IDs can be determined using the
  [Query Workbooks](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_workbooks_and_views.htm#query_workbooks)
  REST API or the [List Workbooks](../../tools/workbooks/list-workbooks.md) tool (assuming tool
  scoping is disabled). The [List Views](../../tools/views/list-views.md) tools also return workbook
  IDs.
- Has no impact on the results of the Pulse-related tools.

Example: `222ea993-9391-4910-a167-56b3d19b4e3b`

<hr />

### `INCLUDE_TAGS`

A comma-separated list of case-sensitive tags by which to constrain tool arguments and results. Only
data sources, workbooks, or views with the provided tags can be queried or will be included in the
results of the tools.

- When set, cannot be empty.
- Tags can be determined using the
  [Tableau product](https://help.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/tags.htm) or the REST APIs
  for querying
  [data sources](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_data_sources.htm#query_data_source),
  [workbooks](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_workbooks_and_views.htm#query_workbook),
  and
  [views](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/rest_api/en-us/REST/rest_api_ref_workbooks_and_views.htm#get_view).
- Has no impact on the results of the Pulse-related tools.

Example: `sales,marketing`
