docs/docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started

## Quick Start

### Requirements

- Node.js 20 or newer
- An MCP client e.g. Claude Desktop, Cursor, VS Code, MCP Inspector, etc.

Standard config works in most MCP clients:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "tableau": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@tableau/mcp-server@latest"],
      "env": {
        "SERVER": "https://my-tableau-server.com",
        "SITE_NAME": "my_site",
        "PAT_NAME": "my_pat",
        "PAT_VALUE": "pat_value"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Working with the source code

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) (tested with 22.15.0 LTS).
3. `npm install`
4. `npm run build`
5. Configure your MCP client using the instructions in the
   [Configuring AI Tools](./configuration/ai-tools-config/README.md) section.

To keep up with repo changes:

1. Pull latest changes: `git pull`
2. `npm install`
3. `npm run build`
4. Relaunch your AI tool or 'refresh' the MCP tools.

<hr />

## Docker Build

To use the Docker version of Tableau MCP, build the image from source:

```bash
$ docker build -t tableau-mcp .
$ docker images
REPOSITORY    TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
tableau-mcp   latest    c721228b6dd3   15 hours ago   260MB
```

Remember to build the Docker image again whenever you pull the latest repo changes. Also you'll need
to relaunch your AI tool so it starts using the updated image.

Commit message:

Docs pass with clarifications and minor improvements

docs/docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started

## Quick Start

### Requirements

- Node.js 20 or newer
- An MCP client e.g. Claude Desktop, Cursor, VS Code, MCP Inspector, etc.

Standard config works in most MCP clients:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "tableau": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": ["-y", "@tableau/mcp-server@latest"],
      "env": {
        "SERVER": "https://my-tableau-server.com",
        "SITE_NAME": "my_site",
        "PAT_NAME": "my_pat",
        "PAT_VALUE": "pat_value"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Working with the source code

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download) (tested with 22.15.0 LTS).
3. `npm install`
4. `npm run build`
5. Configure your MCP client using the instructions in the
   [Configuring AI Tools](./configuration/ai-tools-config/README.md) section.

To keep up with repo changes:

1. Pull latest changes: `git pull`
2. `npm install`
3. `npm run build`
4. Relaunch your AI tool or 'refresh' the MCP tools.

<hr />

## Docker Build

To use the Docker version of Tableau MCP, make sure that Docker is running, then build the image
from source:

```bash
$ npm run build:docker
$ docker images
REPOSITORY    TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
tableau-mcp   latest    c721228b6dd3   15 hours ago   260MB
```

Configure your MCP client using the "running with Docker" instructions in the
[Configuring AI Tools](./configuration/ai-tools-config/README.md) section.

Remember to build the Docker image again whenever you pull the latest repo changes. Also you'll need
to relaunch your AI tool so it starts using the updated image.
